So we talked about the workflow of Power BI Desktop,
now it's time to understand the interface.
So here we have the final output of our GDP project and this means we are in the report view with
our final visualization.
So one important note before we start, everything we will see in that video is the actual data model.
So the first step, the query editor, with the data preparation,
this is not presented right here,
this is a separate menu that has to be opened and we will cover the interface of that menu in the next
video and the details on how we can work with that query editor in the next module.
Nevertheless keep in mind that there is a big difference between the query editor where you prepare
the data and the actual data you import into the data model which can be seen in the interface we were
talking
right
now about. After knowing this,
let's start with the interface.
So basically you have four core areas, you have the ribbons on top, you have that left column right here,
you have that center part where you can see the actual content of each view and you have the columns
to the right.
Now I talked about view, the views can be selected in the left column. At the moment, we are in the report
view and it is displayed right here.
The report view is the view where we generate our visualizations.
Now if we switch to the data view which is the second button, then we see the actual data model.
So the data we created
and we worked on throughout that data modeling step. The third button opens the relationship view,
this is the view that allows us to connect the tables in the data model with each other.
So that's the first thing you have to know.
You have three views and you can select those views by clicking onto the different buttons in the left
column.
Now let's focus on the right part of the screen, that visualisations and that field column. The visualizations
column,
well that column allows us to select different visualizations that we have in Power BI Desktop.
For instance, if I select our world map like this and then press onto that column chart, then the visualisation
type changes.
We did not change anything about the content that should be displayed,
if I want to change the content, then I have to change the fields column or the selected columns in the
fields column.
So at the moment, we selected country and GDP
and we dont have a lot of data to play around with at the moment, so I don't change a thing right here.
Now let's change that visualization back to our map that we had by simply clicking it and let's focus
on that columns because now I will switch to the data view and in the data view, we see that that visualization
column is gone.
This has a simple reason, you cannot visualize anything right here,
so you don't need that column.
However the fields column is still here and this makes sense because you need that column for instance
to create measures.
You may not know what measures are at the moment but you will learn that,
so don't worry but you can create those measures for instance in both views, in the report view and in
the data view
and this might be a nice help if you are looking at some visualization and you see that you're missing
some important information that you need a calculation for.
However in this course, we will focus on the actual data modeling and the creation of such measures in
the data view and in the report view, we will really only create the visualizations and the outputs
but you are free to work with Power BI Desktop as you prefer,
so I just wanted to tell you that. Now if we select the last view, the relationship view, we see that the
views column disappears and this makes sense because in this view, every content will be displayed as
a box and by every content, I mean every table of the data model with the corresponding columns
because this allows you to connect that tables and that columns with each other.
However you might note that we have table 1 and then the column names which are equal to the table
and the column names in the fields view.
So basically it's just displayed differently with some different functionalities but the content is
basically the same.
Now we understand the left column, the center part and the right columns.
So the last thing we need to understand is that ribbons part up here. At the moment we see five ribbons,
this is because I selected our visualization,
so our world map.
Let me just unselect that by clicking into the report
and now we see that we have three general ribbons, so the home, the view and the modeling ribbon. We'll
talk about the file ribbon later.
So the home ribbon doesn't change,
the only thing that changes is the functionalities that are available depending on the view you selected.
For instance, the new page functionality will only work in the report view, in the data view,
we cannot create the visualizations
so the available functionalities change.
Nevertheless the home ribbon is available in all of the views as you can see.
This is different for the remaining two ribbons, the view and the modeling ribbon. The view ribbon is only
available in the report view because here you can play around,
you can define how you want to display your report and you could also try out what your report looks
like in a phone layout.
You don't need that functionality in the data and the relationship view though,
so if we changed the data view, we see that we don't have the view ribbon, the same thing is true in the relationship view.
So that's another outcome.
We know that the columns change and that the ribbons change depending on the selected view in the left
column.
Now let's see what happens to the last ribbon, the modeling ribbon.
So here we can model our data,
we know that and we can do the same thing in the data view.
That's what we talked about, that you are free on where you want to model your data
but we will focus on the data view for that modeling purposes. If we go to the relationship view, we see that the
modeling options are well, reduced
right
and this again makes sense because you don't model your data in that view.
You only create those relationships and you can do that if you go to the home ribbon and then select
manage relationships. At the moment, there is not a lot to manage because we only have one table in our
data model but this is how it would work
and we will see how this works of course.
So this is it.
Let me now go back to the report view
and by that, we now have a basic understanding of the interface of the data model.
However, we still have that query editor, right,
so that data preparation part.
Let's take a look at the interface of that query editor in the next video.